# Human Activity Recognition with Triaxial Accelerometers using Deep Learning

Almost all current wearables and mobile phones have accelerometers installed within them, allowing these sensors to record a variety of human activities. The application of accurate Human Activity Recognition (HAR) has enormous potential, particularly in the health field. As an example, a wearable’s acceleration data can be used to detect if a patient with Parkinson’s disease has a positive or negative reaction to a certain type of prescription drug. Data from the wearable can also be sent to a central server in the cloud that can perform further analysis and meta-analysis across multiple patients to provide further insight to medical professionals.

Deep learning is an exciting field of machine learning that can provide better recognition accuracy for HAR applications and avoid expensive handcrafted design features. This project aims to explore the use of deep convolutional neural networks for human activity recognition. By utilising large publicly available datasets of unlabelled triaxial acceleration data, it critically evaluates a convolutional hierarchical deep learning model’s activity recognition efficacy.

The project also explores and evaluates a real-world application by building a web application that takes temporal sequences of triaxial accelerometer data and provides activity classifications. Raw accelerometer data collected from a smartphone is sent to a centralised server within a cloud infrastructure where the convolutional deep neural network based model calculated the activity classification. The activity classification result is sent back to the user and shown on the web page. This end-to-end prototype aims to showcase the practical usefulness and benefits of a deep learning based HAR model that can be made available to users with relatively minimal cost.